EDU-3865 -  EDU-3866, EDU-3867,  Zero touch provisioning (#670)
aziontech/docs: src/content/docs/en/pages/deploy-journey/automate/zero-touch-provisioning/zero-touch-provisioning.mdx

---

> title: Automate with zero-touch provisioning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Automate the deployment with zero-touch provisioning
```

> description: Automate the deployment on premises, multi-cloud and for IoT devices through Azion Edge Orchestrator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Automate the deployment on-premises, multi-cloud, and for IoT devices through Azion Edge Orchestrator.
```

meta_tags: deploy, orchestrator, provisioning, ztp
namespace: docs_deploy_automate_zero_touch_provisioning
menu_namespace: deployMenu
permalink: /documentation/products/deploy/automate/zero-touch-provisioning/
---

import Button from '~/components/Button.astro'

> [Azion Edge Orchestrator](/en/documentation/products/deploy/edge-orchestrator/) is a programmable and extensible cloud-management and *zero-touch provisioning* orchestration service purposely built for edge infrastructures and applications.
> 
> <Button href="/en/documentation/products/guides/deploy/install-orchestrator-agent/" text="go to how to install edge orchestrator agent" variant="secondary" target="_blank"></Button>
> <br />
> <Button href="/en/documentation/products/guides/deploy/authorize-an-edge-node/" text="go to how to authorize an edge node" variant="secondary" target="_blank"></Button>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Azion **Edge Orchestrator** is a programmable and extensible cloud-management and *zero-touch provisioning* orchestration service purposely built for edge infrastructures and applications.

<Button href="/en/documentation/products/deploy/edge-orchestrator/" text="go to edge orchestrator reference" variant="secondary" target="_blank"></Button>
```

Reviewer: sugestão ara deixar mais simples

> 
> ## Zero-touch Provisionig

Reviewer: ```suggestion

---

## Zero-touch Provisionig
```

> Zero-touch provisioning, is a feature that allows for the automatic provisioning of files and configurations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Zero-touch provisioning is a feature that allows you to automate file and configuration provisioning.
```

> Previously, the deployment of a device and all its access points was a multi-step process that required involvement from multiple professionals. With the introduction of zero-touch provisioning technology, this process has been streamlined, accelerating deployment times and enhancing security.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The deployment of a device and all its access points is a multi-step process that required involvement from multiple professionals. With zero-touch provisioning technology, this process can be streamlined, accelerating deployment times and enhancing security.
```

Basic workflow for using zero-touch provisioning through Azion Edge Orchestrator:

> 1. Install the Edge Orchestrator Agent on your device. This device now represents an edge node.
> 2. Authorize the node on the Azion platform.
> 3. The node is now ready to be provisioned automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Install the Edge Orchestrator Agent]() on your device. This device now represents an edge node.
2. [Authorize the node]() on the Azion platform.
3. The node is now ready to be provisioned automatically.
```

Reviewer: Sugestão: adicionar links de guias para deixar mais na mão

Author: boaaaa

### Deploy on premises

Zero-touch provisioning can significantly benefit on-premises nodes in several ways:

> 1. **Automated Provisioning**: it allows for the automatic provisioning of configurations, which can significantly reduce the time and effort required to set up each node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Automated provisioning**: it allows for the automatic provisioning of configurations, which can significantly reduce the time and effort required to set up each node.
```

> 2. **Enhanced Security**: by eliminating the need for manual configuration, it reduces the risk of human error, which can lead to security vulnerabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Enhanced security**: by eliminating the need for manual configuration, it reduces the risk of human error, which can lead to security vulnerabilities.
```

3. **Scalability**: it makes it easier to scale your network, as new nodes can be added and configured automatically.

4. **Efficiency**: it streamlines the deployment process, accelerating deployment times and reducing the need for involvement from multiple professionals.

### Deploy on multi-cloud 

Zero-touch provisioning can significantly benefit multi-cloud environments:

> 1. **Automated Provisioning**: in a multi-cloud environment, managing configurations across different cloud platforms can be complex. It can automate this process, reducing the time and effort required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Automated provisioning**: in a multi-cloud environment, managing configurations across different cloud platforms can be complex. It can automate this process, reducing the time and effort required.
```

> 2. **Enhanced Security**: Zero-touch provisioning eliminates the need for manual configuration, reducing the risk of human error and potential security vulnerabilities. This is especially important in a multi-cloud environment where security policies may vary across platforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Enhanced security**: Zero-touch provisioning eliminates the need for manual configuration, reducing the risk of human error and potential security vulnerabilities. This is especially important in a multi-cloud environment where security policies may vary across platforms.
```

3. **Scalability**: Zero-touch provisioning can make it easier to scale your network across multiple cloud platforms, as new nodes can be added and configured automatically.

4. **Efficiency**: it can streamline the deployment process across multiple cloud platforms, accelerating deployment times and reducing the need for involvement from multiple professionals.

5. **Consistency**: by automating the provisioning process, it can help ensure consistency in configurations across different cloud platforms.

:::note 
The specific workflow for using zero-touch provisioning in a multi-cloud environment would depend on the specific cloud platforms being used and the capabilities of the system.
:::

### Deploy IoT

Zero-touch provisioning can be particularly beneficial for IoT (Internet of Things) devices:

1. **Automated Provisioning**: IoT devices often need to be deployed in large numbers. Zero-touch provisioning can automate the configuration process, significantly reducing the time and effort required.

2. **Scalability**: as the number of IoT devices in a network grows, zero-touch provisioning makes it easier to scale, as new devices can be added and configured automatically.

> 3. **Security** : by eliminating the need for manual configuration, zero-touch provisioning reduces the risk of human error, which can lead to security vulnerabilities. This is especially important for IoT devices, which can often be a target for cyber attacks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **Security**: by eliminating the need for manual configuration, zero-touch provisioning reduces the risk of human error, which can lead to security vulnerabilities. This is especially important for IoT devices, which can often be a target for cyber-attacks.
```

---

import Button from '~/components/Button.astro'

[Azion Edge Orchestrator](/en/documentation/products/deploy/edge-orchestrator/) is a programmable and extensible cloud-management and *zero-touch provisioning* orchestration service purposely built for edge infrastructures and applications.

<Button href="/en/documentation/products/guides/deploy/install-orchestrator-agent/" text="go to how to install edge orchestrator agent" variant="secondary" target="_blank"></Button>
<br />
<Button href="/en/documentation/products/guides/deploy/authorize-an-edge-node/" text="go to how to authorize an edge node" variant="secondary" target="_blank"></Button>

---

## Zero-touch Provisionig

Zero-touch provisioning is a feature that allows you to automate file and configuration provisioning.

Previously, the deployment of a device and all its access points was a multi-step process that required involvement from multiple professionals. With the introduction of zero-touch provisioning technology, this process has been streamlined, accelerating deployment times and enhancing security.

Basic workflow for using zero-touch provisioning through Azion Edge Orchestrator:

> 1. [Install the Edge Orchestrator Agent]() on your device. This device now represents an edge node.

Author: ```suggestion
1. [Install the Edge Orchestrator Agent](/en/documentation/products/guides/deploy/install-orchestrator-agent/) on your device. This device now represents an edge node.
```
